An official ceremony was held recently at the newly set up City-Link Express Warehouse in Cheras, Kuala Lumpur, to commemorate the handover of Isuzu Malaysia’s commercial trucks to City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd.  The handover comprised of 90 units of Isuzu ELF 4-wheeler model [NLR77UEE-2E], procured in line with the company’s business explansion plans.

Isuzu has long been City-Link Express’ preferred brand of commercial vehicle, as seen in the long relationship and mutual trust between both companies since its first fleet purchase was made in 2011. The latest procurement will further improve City-Link Express’ reliable services, and at the same time continue in achieving its customer satisfaction.

These 90 units were specifically procured to increase mobilisation at various City-Link Express centres nationwide, including the Cheras Warehouse & Distribution Centre, which offers business clients specialised services of storing goods in temperature-controlled environment, before being packed, delivered and shipped out to all destinations accordingly.

During his speech, Atsunori Murata, Chief Operating Officer of Isuzu Malaysia, took the time to convey his sincere gratittude to City-Link Express for their continuous support to Isuzu as their preferred vehicle for their business operations. Murata hopes that this recent procurement will further enhance City-Link Express’ day-to-day operations.

To commemorate the special occassion, Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Offer of Isuzu Malaysia Sdn Bhd, presented a symbolic mock key and an appreciation momento to City-Link Express’ Chief Executive Officer, Ronald Tan. Also in attendance was City-Link Express’ Senior Sales Manager, Colin Tan.

Previously, in February 2019, training sessions on product knowledge and basic maintenance was held for City-Link Express drivers at their central warehouse and operating hub in Saujana Putra. The training sessions was conducted to ensure attendees are well equipped with vital knowledge and understanding of the Isuzu trucks recently procured by City-Link Express, as well as learning the techniques of economical and safe driving.

ISUZU Malaysia recently handed over a breathtaking 90 units of Isuzu ELF 4-wheeler model (NLR77UEE-2E) to City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd.

The ceremony was held at the logistics company’s newly set-up warehouse in Cheras, Kuala Lumpur.

The Elf were procured in line with the company’s business expansion plans.

“Isuzu has long been City-Link Express’ preferred brand of commercial vehicle, as seen in the long relationship and mutual trust between both companies since its first fleet purchase was made in 2011,” says Isuzu Malaysia.

“The latest procurement will further improve City-Link Express’ reliable services, and at the same time continue in achieving its customer satisfaction.”

The 90 units were specifically procured to increase mobilisation at various City-Link Express centres nationwide, including the Cheras Warehouse & Distribution Centre, which offers business clients specialised services of storing goods in temperature-controlled environment, before being packed, delivered and shipped out to all destinations accordingly.
Isuzu Malaysia chief operating officer Atsunori Murata conveyed his sincere gratitude to City-Link Express for the latter’s continuous support to Isuzu as their preferred vehicle for their business operations.

Murata hoped that the latest procurement will further enhance City-Link Express’ day-to-day operations.

To commemorate the special occassion, Isuzu Malaysia CEO Koji Nakamura presented a symbolic mock key and an appreciation memento to City-Link Express’ CEO Ronald Tan.

Last month, a training session on product knowledge and basic maintenance was held for City-Link Express drivers at their central warehouse and operating hub in Saujana Putra, Kuala Langat.

The training session was conducted to ensure attendees are well-equipped with vital knowledge and understanding of the Isuzu lorries recently procured by City-Link Express, as well as learning the techniques of economical and safe driving.