PETALING JAYA: GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEx) is acquiring a 50% stake in Vietnam’s Noi Bai Express and Trading Joint Stock Company (Netco) for RM13.85 million.

Netco is principally involved in provision of courier and logistics services in Vietnam.

In a Bursa Malaysia filing, GDEx said it has entered into a share sale and purchase agreement with Nguyen Duc The, Trieu Lan Huong and Nguyen Duc Hau for the acquisition.

GDEx has also signed a shareholder’s agreement with 3 Comma Capital Co Ltd, Trieu, Nguyen Xuan Hiep,Tran Thi Thuy Hang, Nguyen Thanh Trung and Duc The to regulate their relationships as shareholders of Netco.

“The proposed acquisition is in line with the group’s regional ambition in building a sustainable Southeast Asia delivery network to serve the community better. The expansion into Vietnam is the continuation of such effort after Indonesia,” it said it its filing.

GDEx said the purchase price was arrived at a willing buyer-willing seller basis after taking into consideration the growth potential of Netco and its extensive delivery network in Vietnam covering all 63 provinces.

Netco currently has four hubs, 45 branches & lodge-in centres and 47 points of delivery.

The proposed acquisition will be financed with internally generated funds, and the agreements are expected to be completed by January 2020.

The acquisition comes after GDEx announced earlier this month that it would be kicking off its regional expansion plan in Indonesia.

To recap, GDEx subscribed to 44.56% of Indonesia’s Development Board-listed PT SAP Express Tbk’s (SAP Express) initial public offering for RM25.8 million.

“We believe Indonesia offers a vast growth opportunity for the courier business, supported by the growth of e-commerce as well as conventional business.

“The continuation of the company’s partnership with SAP Express will enable the company to provide business advice and support, as well as knowledge transfer between the two companies,” it said in an filing with the exchange then.

SAP Express, which is headquartered in Jakarta, mainly provides services in the express delivery segment, as well as transport, distribution and warehousing.

This could also prove to be a rerating catalyst for GDEx by research analysts.

“Rerating catalysts for GDEx would be entry into other Asean countries such as Vietnam and Cambodia, a stronger retail delivery network and services, and the Digital Free Trade Zone development. e-commerce will likely drive demand growth for air cargo and land logistics especially last-mile delivery services,” said MIDF Research in a recent note.

PETALING JAYA: GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) remains shielded by its presence in the business-to-business (B2B) segment, even as delivery players in the e-commerce (business-to-consumer or B2C) segment face yield pressures.
MIDF Research said B2C players are facing yield pressures due to new entrants in the market and existing players adding capacity, which has worked in favour of e-commerce platforms who gain bargaining power in negotiating for lower delivery rates.
“Exacerbating matters are platforms like Lazada who continue to grow at blazing speed, doubling its sales in 2016 with a similar target for 2017. As volumes grow, e-commerce platforms are able to negotiate thinner rates with express delivery partners in return for a share of its large parcel volumes,” it said in its report yesterday.
However for GDEX, the bulk of its revenue remains anchored on its B2B business although the B2C segment has been its key growth driver in recent years.
It derives some 70% of its revenue from the B2B segment, with clients comprising banks, telcos, multinational companies and small and medium enterprises.
MIDF Research said the company’s emphasis on the B2B segment enables it to not overly pursue B2C contracts and instead, allow the market to consolidate.
Meanwhile, the company continues to expand its sorting capacity, improve the quality of its service and enhance its IT systems while a rainy day fund of RM277.6 million allows it to ride out any potential volatility.
In terms of expansion, GDEX initially planned to set up a new sorting hub in Sungai Buloh by 1H18 with additional capacity of 60,000 parcels per day. However, it is now exploring a more cost-effective method of upgrading its Petaling Jaya sorting hub, which would give it similar capacity additions.
“In addition, GDEX has obtained the permit to grow its vehicle fleet by another 200 trucks, which could boost its fleet from 864 to more than 1,000 by end-2017,” said MIDF Research.
GDEX is also keen to regain the syariah-compliant classification in the next update in November this year and has taken the required steps to fulfill the requirements, pending an evaluation by the Syariah Advisory Council.
Recall that its syariah-compliant status was removed in May, when its cash over total assets in conventional accounts breached the 33% limit, prompting a brief sell-off which saw the company’s shares price dip 7.7% in the ensuing three trading days.
MIDF Research also noted that GDEX could exercise its equity conversion sooner than the five year conversion period once it is on a stable footing.
GDEX is currently focusing on improving its cash flow position, reporting standards and IT systems.
MIDF Research maintained its “neutral” call on GDEX with an unchanged target price of 70 sen, a valuation which assumes weighted average cost of capital of 8.5%, high growth period between 2020 and 2027 of 9.5% and terminal growth rate of 3.5%.
“GDEX has had an outstanding run, with its share price ascending 60% year-to-date. We believe the company is fully valued for now, hence our neutral recommendation,” it said.

KUALA LUMPUR: GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) has signed a memorandum of business collaboration with Japan’s Yamato Group to explore growth opportunities in the Asean region.
“To achieve our long-term goal, we need a strong working relationship. Yamato will nominate one non-independent non-executive director to the GDEX board and second a few specialists to GDEX to facilitate on the innovations and operational efficiencies. Furthermore, GDEX and Yamato will also form working teams to work on business collaboration in both the domestic and regional markets,” GDEX group CEO Teong Teck Lean told reporters at the signing of the memorandum yesterday.
Some of the areas of growth that the two parties will look at are international TA-Q-BIN and Cool TA-Q-BIN delivery services, collaboration of delivery network in Malaysia, linehaul collaboration in Malaysia and Singapore, express custom clearance between Malaysia-Singapore from Yamato to GDEX as well as joint business collaboration opportunities in other Asean countries.
The business collaboration follows the completion of a private placement whereby Yamato’s wholly-owned subsidiary Yamato Asia Pte Ltd subscribed to GDEX 10% private placement.
Yamato has further increased its stake to 22.8% by acquiring more shares from existing major shareholders Teong and Singapore Post. Yamato is now the second largest shareholder of GDEX.
Teong said Singapore Post will remain an important partner to GDEX, despite paring down its stake to 11.2%.
Teong said some of the business plans may incur significant capital expenditure (capex), hence the working teams will be tasked to analyse the feasibility of the plans. Each business plan will be localised to fit the market in the country.
“This year we are investing in further enhancement of our network as well as to improve a lot of customer service to allow the customers to have the type of experience they would expect. This is one area we are looking at.
“We will also be looking at how to invest in technology to further enhance some of our weak areas to further meet customers’ expectations,” he said, adding that it will also invest in call centres in some of the major cities to improve customer experience.
Teong said GDEX’s capex on a yearly basis is about RM17 million to RM18 million and it expects more to be allocated for the coming year.
Of the RM217.3 million proceeds from the private placement, RM20 million is for working capital while RM180 million is for capex including expansions, potential investments and collaboration.