Poslaju customers in East Malaysia are urged to be patient while waiting for their parcel.

MIRI: Poslaju customers in East Malaysia are urged to be patient with the longer waiting time, as the national courier is experiencing a surge of parcel volume during the recovery phase of movement control order (RMCO).

The Borneo Post had recently reached out to the national courier through its Sarawak representative, following complaints by dissatisfied customers on pending parcels delivery and long queues.

In response, the spokesperson yesterday explained that Poslaju is taking all the measures to maximise capacity, to ensure deliveries are carried out as soon as possible.

“We process all items using the ‘First In, First Out (Fifo)’ system, to ensure that deliveries are done systematically.

“Any delays due to limited availability of flights are unexpected, thus we seek the kind understanding and patience of our customers,” the spokesperson said.

As the demand for parcel delivery has soared after the country had entered the fifth phase of MCO, Pos Malaysia has been deploying part-timers – ‘Pos Riders’ – to help with parcel deliveries during this time and has also increased its back-end sorting resources to ensure deliveries can be carried out as soon possible.

Pos Malaysia Group’s initiative to scale up its last mile delivery through crowd-sourcing is gaining traction with more than 70 per cent increase in crowd-sourced riders compared to the quarter ended 31 December 2019.

This initiative runs parallel to the Group’s Entrepreneurship Programme, which was launched in February 2020, aiming at converting full-time delivery personnel to become Pos Malaysia’s delivery partners.

As for the complaints it has received, particularly on the variable quality of services from one office to another, Poslaju thanks the public for the feedback and furthermore appreciates it, as it helps Pos Malaysia to improve its products and services.

“We hope the public understand that different post offices handle different number of parcels and customers.

“High parcel volume and customer traffic may cause unexpected issues such as longer waiting times, long queues and others.

“In view of the increasing demand, we always strive to improve our touchpoints to enhance customer experience, such as through the integration of digital technology to improve the way we operate and interact with our customers, easing business transactions and many more.”

It also reminds customers to always update their delivery addresses, for smooth
delivery.

Customers are welcome to use AskPos via Pos Malaysia website at www.pos.com.my should they have any enquiries regarding Pos Malaysia products or services, or to update their delivery address for redirection purposes.
Pos Malaysia recently revealed that a new contactless system has been integrated to Pos Laju deliveries. According to the company, customers are no longer required to provide their IC card or signature upon receiving their parcels.

Through this newly implemented system, recipients are provided with a 6-digit verification code that corresponds to their respective packages. The code will be sent by Pos Malaysia via SMS on the day of delivery, which the customer can use to verbally confirm their identity with postmen once they arrive on location.

This allows for all of Pos Laju deliveries to be made without any physical contact, ensuring the safety of both customer and staff – especially with the current situation with the worldwide pandemic. Furthermore, the postmen can also be instructed to leave parcels at the entrance of the recipient’s home or office reception area upon verification, which can then be collected after their departure.

With the new contactless delivery system now in effect, do make sure that the mobile numbers provided to your senders are up to date and correct. This would ensure that you will receive the required 6-digit verification code when your parcels are sent out for deliveries.
Unlocking consumer value through its continuous foray into digitalisation

TO manage the change in trends in terms of consumer’s buying behaviour and to remain competitive, companies need to keep up with the times.

That said, Pos Malaysia’s new digital platform SendParcel by Pos Laju is hoping to achieve two million parcels monthly by 2021.

“Pos Laju SendParcel was launched over a year ago to support the changing trend in customer buying behaviour from physically going to retail stores to buying goods online, ” said Pos Malaysia Group chief executive officer Syed Md Najib.

“Our courier business is a key segment that generates sustainable revenue for Pos Malaysia but the problem then was, we were still conducting business the conventional way by requiring customers to walk in to our Pos Laju outlets, while other businesses were online and required quick turnaround due to the high demand from customers.”

The number of registered users surpassed 86,000 subscribers within a year and from October 2019 to July 2020, Pos Laju SendParcel has successfully shipped more than 3.3 million parcels in total and generated RM21.7mil in revenue.

Pos Malaysia aims to achieve a revenue of RM30mil by the end of this year.

The establishment of the online shipping platform was indeed timely as Pos Malaysia would not have survived the movement control order restrictions during the initial stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.

With a substantial increase in online purchases during that time, Pos Laju SendParcel provided the right platform to deliver customer purchases right to their home addresses.

Syed added that Pos Malaysia went full steam ahead into its digitalisation and transformation plans to unlock value for its customers, tapping into the booming e-commerce market while meeting evolving customer demands.

Embracing digital innovation is also the only way to improve service efficiency and enhance customer experience.

“The rapid adoption of technology has brought about new challenges to our business and Pos Malaysia knew that it must adapt to digitalisation, to remain relevant in the industry and fulfil the changing behaviour of our customers.”

Concurrently, Pos Malaysia saw the arrival of global players with huge fundings and technological capabilities.

Therefore, it was a race against time for Pos Malaysia’s team to face the challenge at hand to bring forward a solid digital proposition into the market.

“We knew that we needed to act fast to avoid being irrelevant in the industry. The pressure was high, but we were confident that the team would be able to create a digital platform that could compete and excel in the market, ” he added.

[Image: Try SendParcel today for the ultimate consumer experience. ]

Try SendParcel today for the ultimate consumer experience.
Pos Laju SendParcel was introduced to the public in August 2019, providing the desired customer convenience, particularly for small and medium enterprises (SMEs).

Apart from 24-hour access and fast order placements, customers are offered best parcel rates, instant pricing quotes, free pick-up service, auto-generated consignment note including ease of shipment reporting and tracking.

In January 2020, Pos Malaysia expanded the service by offering international deliveries to more than 200 countries worldwide, connecting local SMEs and e-commerce businesses with overseas markets.

“By enhancing our reach internationally through Pos Laju SendParcel, Malaysian businesses can connect with international clients and expand their footprint across the globe, while enjoying affordable rates. Pos Malaysia remains committed to providing convenience and opening new frontiers and opportunities for customers, ” Syed said.

As for PosLaju SendParcel offerings, Syed said that Pos Malaysia aims to improve their services even further via constant feedback from users to ensure that Pos Malaysia continues to provide the best customer experience.

To complement the Pos Laju SendParcel service, Pos Malaysia also introduced automation and other digital enhancements to ensure safe and timely deliveries.

To date, Pos Malaysia has 28 distribution centres fitted with semi-automated sorting systems which reduces manual workload and streamline workflow for maximum efficiency. Pos Malaysia will also install four additional distribution centres with the semi-automated sorting systems by end of this year.

Pos Malaysia has seen immediate benefits to its processing capacity and speed where it is now able to process 60% more items – bringing down the total processing time by one to two hours per day – enabling the company to be on track with its aim to process one million parcels daily by the end of 2021.

“We will continue on our investment efforts to exceed customer expectations through a robust and scalable digital platform, ” Syed concluded.